Symposium on Geometry Processing 2024 Report
Krishna Chebolu

SGP 2024 took place in two-parts: the graduate school from June 22-23, 2024, 
and the symposium from June 24-26, 2024 in MIT’s CSAIL building in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA.

As a novice into geometry processing, the graduate school was a particularly 
helpful and robust introduction into the field. It was packed with foundational 
material that focused on the intuitive understanding of how geometric data was 
represented and processed. The motivation and goals of geometry process were
well-laid out. I particularly enjoyed the talks on equivariant neural networks, 
sketch processing, introduction to geometry processing research in Python, and Monte 
Carlo methods. The talks had a much-needed balance of introductory, 
interactive material and in-depth analysis of useful methods. During this time, I 
also met many other novices like myself as well as those who push the frontier 
of geometry.

Equipped with the basics, I felt more confident attending the main event—the 
symposium. My favorites, right-off-the-bat were the three keynote speakers. 
They accomplished the great feat of inspiring an audience mixed with experts 
and beginners, and bring them to the same page. Dr. Xin Tong, Dr. Alec 
Jacobson, and Dr. Josephine Carstensen each covered complementary avenues 
of research—the broader scope, future direction, and innovative applications. 
The remaining 15-16 papers presented at the symposium were impressive in 
their own rights. While the selected papers covered a range of material, they all 
had one admirable thing in common: the papers were obvious by-products of 
passionate research.

The social events at the event were also a unique experience. Speaking to the 
presenters, organizers, fellow student researchers, and industry folks in the 
historic scene of Boston Tea Party Ships and Museum and the innovative display 
of MIT’s science museum set this symposium apart from other math conferences
that I previously attended. enjoyed talking to the presenters and getting to know
them during and after the symposium. I built meaningful connections with all 
credit going towards the conference organizers on facilitating such an 
interaction.

For me, the most interesting problem is how data is represented. As someone 
that worked in bioinformatics and Boeing’s Phantom Works Estimating, the 
quality of data is immensely important. A common thread is that data is 
computationally and financially expensive to acquire so current data is relied 
upon heavily. Dr. Tong’s talk emphasized the need for better data and the papers
reinforced this idea when it came to future direction. I have always been 
interested in better data representation and optimization for pipeline processing,
but now, I am equipped with better direction and motivation.

I am grateful to have been the recipient of the SGP 2024 Student Travel Grant. I 
believe that I exhausted its resources to the best of my ability. The five-day 
event left a mark of inspiration on me that I could not erase if I tried.
